2.1 documentation (#26)
Intermodalics/pickit-docs: docs/documentation/setup/exclude-3d-information-based-on-color.rst

.. _color-filter:

Exclude 3D information based on color
-------------------------------------

The color filter can be used to explicitly include or exclude points
with a certain color. Several use cases for the color filter are:

> -  Excluding parts of the bin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Excluding parts of a bin
```

-  Detection of thin parts on a flat surface

.. note:: The color filter is a **light dependent solution**. This

>    requires very stable light conditions for continuous results. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   requires very stable light conditions for reproducible results. 
```

Example of detecting thin parts on a flat surface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-2d.png

This is an example case where we want to detect thin parts at the bottom of a bin. 
Since these parts are very thin, their 3D shape does not stand out from the bin bottom, 
as their thickness is smaller than the noise levels of the cloud. 
It is therefore impossible to define the ROI box dimensions such that only points from the parts are included, 
without any points from the bin.

1. Define your ROI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-points.png

> When :ref:`build-roi-box`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When :ref:`building the ROI box <build-roi-box>`
```

> in a normal way we can see 2 problems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without the color filter, we can see 2 problems:
```

-  We still see some parts of the bottom in the Points view
-  The point cloud of our parts is not very good.

> In a normal situation we can increase the Z-min of the ROI to remove the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When dealing with parts that are not as thin as these, we can increase the Z-min of the ROI to remove the
```

bottom, or lower the Z-min to make the parts more visible.

2. Lower the Z-min of the ROI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-points-lower.png

We lower the Z-min of the ROI to include the whole bottom of the bin,
this makes our point cloud unusable for detections.

> 3. Exclude the color

Reviewer: ...of the bin bottom

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/color-filter-exclude.png

We can exclude all the points of the yellow bin by following these steps:

> #. On the **Setup** page, in section **Exclude 3D information based on color**, check the Color filter checkbox. 

Reviewer: section or tab? We should use the same term across the entire KB.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-2d.png

This is an example case where we want to detect thin parts at the bottom
of a bin. There are several problems that need to be solved:

-  The bottom of the bin is not straight, this results in parts of the
   bottom being visible in the points view.
-  Because of the thin parts it's hard to distinguish them from the
   bottom

1. Define your ROI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-points.png

When :ref:`build-roi-box`
in a normal way we can see 2 problems:

-  We still see some parts of the bottom in the Points view
-  The point cloud of our parts is not very good.

In a normal situation we can increase the Z-min of the ROI to remove the
bottom, or lower the Z-min to make the parts more visible.

2. Lower the Z-min of the ROI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-points-lower.png

We lower the Z-min of the ROI to include the whole bottom of the bin,
this makes our point cloud unusable for detections.

3. Exclude the color
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> .. image:: /assets/images/Documentation/Color-filter-exclude.png

Author: Good screenshot!
